New blog on Probot (#5)
Athul-CA/blog: content/blog/probot/index.md

---
title: Making GitHub apps with Probot
date: "2019-07-04"
description: Making GitHub apps easier with Probot and Node.js
---
### GitHub Apps with Probot

> Ever see in any issues or Pull Request in GitHub where a bot comments on the PR/Issue or adds labels to the Pr/Issue? If you have they are generally termed as GitHub apps and can be made relatively easily.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever see in any issues or Pull Request in GitHub where a bot comments on the PR/Issue or adds labels to the PR/Issue? If you have, they are generally termed as GitHub apps and can be made relatively easily.  
```

> Most of these apps are made by JavaScript(Node.js) using **Probot**, a framework for building apps for GitHub. Probot is written in Typescript, a superset of JavaScript.You can find more about in their [Website](https://probot.github.io). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of these apps are written in JavaScript (Node.js) using **Probot**, a framework for building apps for GitHub. Probot is written in Typescript, a superset of JavaScript. You can find more about on their [website](https://probot.github.io). 
```

 ---------

>  Here we'll make a **Simple Issue and Pull Request commentor** bot which is made and deployed on Glitch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Here we'll make a **Simple Issue and Pull Request commenter** bot which is made and deployed on Glitch.
```

 ###### Prerequisites
- GitHub account
- An account on Glitch using GitHub

> - Base Js knowledge like variables and strings and functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Basic JavaScript knowledge like variables and strings and functions
```

#### Making our App on Glitch

> Glitch is a free online code-editing platform. It sets up our environment will all the necessary packages and stuff. All you need to do is click this button👇 and you'll get a full working environment for your "Remixing".

Reviewer: Great description!

```suggestion
Glitch is a free online code-editing platform. It sets up our environment with all the necessary packages and stuff. All you need to do is click this button👇 and you'll get a full working environment for your "Remixing".
```

<!-- Remix Button -->
<!-- Remix Button -->
<a href="https://glitch.com/edit/#!/remix/twilight-marquis">
  <img src="https://cdn.glitch.com/2bdfb3f8-05ef-4035-a06e-2043962a3a13%2Fremix%402x.png?1513093958726" alt="remix this" height="33">
</a>

> Probot ships with an example of setting up an issue commentor bot in `index.js` for commenting on PRs we need to uncomment the `app.yml` file at line 38, written pull request removing the '#' will do the trick

Reviewer: Before going into the Probot code, I would add something about what Probot helps with - specifically, authorization and the `EventEmitter`-like API (for `app.on`). Something like:

> Probot abstracts the authentication system that all GitHub Apps have to follow - letting you focus on writing API requests without worrying about API tokens or permissions.

Author: Done

Next, we'll edit the `index.js` to the following 

 ```js 
//index.js
 module.exports = app => {
  // Your code here
  app.log('Yay, the app was loaded!')

>   const issue=context.payload.issue //getting issue details

Reviewer: This line and the next one need to be in the `app.on()` handler, or it won't have a `context` yet!

  const user=issue.login.user //Getting the username
  app.on('issues.opened', async context =>({

>     return context.github.issues.createComment(context.issue({ body: `Thanks @${user} for opening this issue!:tada:

Reviewer: For the sake of clearer code, I would separate this line into a few:

```js
const body = `Thanks ...`
const params = context.issue({ body })
return context.github.issues.createComment(params)
```

    You are awesome..` })
)
  })
}
```

> The above code is for a bot which comments on new issues. It mentions the user too. The *"Robotic"* characteristics start from the 4th line starting with `app.on` function the first argument passed is the action which the bot listens to. These actions are **webhook** actions of GitHub and you can learn more about from[Webhook Documentation](https://developer.github.com/webhooks/).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code is for a bot which comments on new issues. It mentions the user too. The *"Robotic"* characteristics start from the 4th line starting with `app.on` function the first argument passed is the action which the bot listens to. These are **webhook** events of GitHub - you can learn more about them from the [Webhook Documentation](https://developer.github.com/webhooks/).    
```

> Probot uses node's `async` API for returning the data. We used *`* to enclose the string/comment body because we won't need to use escape characters and we can also interpolate [Template Literals](https://flaviocopes.com/javascript-template-literals/).         

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Probot uses Node's `async/await` API for returning the data. We used the *`* character to enclose the string/comment body because we won't need to use escape characters and we can also interpolate [Template Literals](https://flaviocopes.com/javascript-template-literals/).         
```

> Now we need to check if our app is working or not, we can run `npm run dev` and in the browser go to `localhost:8000`, you can find a webpage like this![probot-webpage](/wp.jpg)   

Reviewer: I thought this would be on Glitch? If so, I'd remove the bit about running `npm run dev`, and instead focus on getting it up and running in Glitch.

 Click the **Register GitHub App** button and provide a name and install it in a repository.
 > Tip: Create a new private repository because we'll be making a lot of noise for the testing   
 
 Now, if you check the `.env`  file you'll see the variable values auto-filled with the necessary data. Glitch automatically deploys our app and our app will be listening to the webhooks to be received.
 

>  > Test the app by making a new issue in the test repo on GitHub.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 > Test the app by making a new issue in a test repo on GitHub.   
```

 
 It works right?  
Congratulations 🎉🎉 You just made yourself a GitHub App👌👌 
##### Redelivering Webhook⤴️
We can view all the webhooks of any event triggered by the Repository and we can redeliver them by going to **Settings->Developer Settings->GitHub Apps->"Your app name"->Advanced Tab** in your profile.
 #### Commenting on PRs
If you check the app settings in GitHub for your app, you can see that the app also works for Pull Requests. This is due to the edit on `app.yml` file before registering our app. 

> Now we need to edit the `index.js` to add this before the last '}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to edit the `index.js` to add support for pull requests before the last '}'
```

```js 
//index.js
app.on('pull_request.opened', async context =>{
    const pr = context.payload.pull_request
    const user = pr.user.login //Collecting Details of the person who created the PR
     const msg=context.issue({body:`Hey @${user} :wave: Thanks for the PR !!! You are Awesome.`})
     return context.github.issues.createComment(msg)
  })
```

>  Here we add a new _"robotic"_ characteristic by passing a webhook action called *pull_request.open*. Now our app listens for PR webhook and once received it emits the `context.issue({body})` to GitHub. You can see that we are still passing the body to the *createComment* function.This is because PRs are considered as another type of Issues in GitHub. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Here we add a new _"robotic"_ characteristic by passing a webhook action called *pull_request.open*. Now our app listens for PR webhook and once received it emits the `context.issue({body})` to GitHub. You can see that we are still passing the body to the *createComment* function. This is because PRs are considered as another type of Issues in GitHub. 
```

For testing if this works, make a new PR and check if the bot comments on that yes.

-------
Congratulations on making a GitHub app. Since it is on Glitch we can install this in any repository and it will work any time too. 
> You can customise the comments with Images and Gifs but keep in mind that the comments render markdown.
> You can always import these files to a GitHub repository through Glitch.  
 Now go forth, explore and make some exciting GitHub apps,❤️❤️
 ##### Thanks to

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: Looks like a leftover conflict marker!
